[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: The last
thing I want to show you about
streams is that streams are pipeable.
Which means, just in the same way that
you think about on the Unix command line,
on our command lines we can take
the output of one command and
pipe it into the input of another command,
and then pipe the output to another input.
We can do the same thing with streams, and
that turns out to be a super
powerful way of doing things.
My simple little illustration of that
is gonna seem kind of silly, but
this is really powerful,
the ability to pipe things into a chain.
Very much in the same vein as how
we're expressing our asynchronous
flow control chains,
you can express a series of pipes.
So what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna say stream.pipe.
Remember this is my read stream.
I'm gonna pipe that stream
to a file write stream.
Remember we've got a create read stream,
I'm going to pipe it to
a file write stream.
So I'm going to say,
fs.createWriteStream, and
I'm going to give it
a different file name,
which is filename+ a .backup extension.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not gonna change
anything at all about lines 8 through 13
where I'm listening for
the data events to happen, so
those things I'm gonna continue
to passively listen about.
But I'm also saying in addition to that,
I want you to pipe
whatever you read in from this file,
I want you to pipe it out to another file.
In a very highly efficient manner,
without me having to do any of that work,
I just want you pipe it.
Now, realistically,
you probably aren't gonna do this.
You're gonna read in a file, and pipe it
to, you're going to read in a gzipped
file and pipe it to a gunzipper, and then
pipe those contents into another file.
Or even read in a CSV file and
pipe it into a CSV parser,
and then pipe that into a zipper and then
pipe that back to a file, or whatever.
You're gonna read a file
from an HTTP request and
post it somewhere else
using these streams.
So, it just goes by
taking a stream name and
saying .pipe, and giving it the name, the
target of another stream to pipe it into.
And for the most part,
it just handles those details.
The devil's in the details,
there's more to it than that.
You sometimes have to understand
which pipe you're dealing about and
where your events are happening.
For example, if I wanted to know when did
it finish writing to the file output,
I can't use .end because
this is my read in.
I would actually need to attach an event
to the file writing thing to listen,
I think it's for end or close,
or something like that.
So, you have to be a little bit cognizant
of which stream you attach your events to,
cuz it can get a little
confusing when you start piping,
which stream am I even talking about?
But other than those sorts
of implementation details,
piping of streams is a really highly
efficient way of transferring large
amounts of data around without
doing stuff like we did on line 8,
where we're grabbing all
the stuff into a string.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
any more questions about streams?
Let's test it.
So I put that code in there,
let's prove that it actually works.
We know that we already have a test3.txt,
but
we don't have a backup yet.
If I do node 3.js --file=test3.txt,
we're gonna get the exact same
behavior printing out our whole thing,
but now when we look at our file system,
we have an exact duplicate
here of test3.txt.backup.
>> Kyle Simpson: Lots of fantastic
blog posts out there about streams.
I'm gonna show you one other
tool that's really interesting.
I just found it recently,
but it's by a guy
I'm sure none of you have ever heard
of him, but his name is John Resig.
And he recently wrote a blog
post back last fall about it.
But he put together this thing
called the Node Stream Playground.
And I just was fascinated playing around
with this thing, so nodestreams.com.
But it allows you to kind of visually see
how you can plug streams together and
what the code looks like
to do those things.
So it's sort of like a visual builder
that helps you learn how streams and
pipes work.
So he provides a couple of options here.
You can get a file from a file system,
like we were doing, or
you can get a file that's coming in
from a request, like a POST request.
Let's do it from the file system, so I'm
gonna read a file in from the file system.
And it shows you the code right there,
it shows you what code to do,
fs.createReadStream, just
like we already did.
And it shows you the output
that you're gonna get,
which is the contents of
this people.csv file.
Now, what if I wanted to pipe that
into a write file, like we just did?
If did addStream piping it into the write
file, you'll notice that he did exactly
what I did, fs.createReadStream.pipe
to fs.createWriteStream.
So you see the exact same code.
But, let's say,
maybe I don't want to pipe it to that.
Maybe I want to pipe it to an unzipper.
So now we show how to
create a Gunzip stream
using the built in zlib library,
and that will unzip it on the fly.
And then you can add more of these
in here after you've Gunzipped it,
now you want to parse the JSON or
whatever.
Of course the file that's coming
in isn't actually JSON, so
now we're starting to see errors, but
you see how this tool helps you build your
pipes of your streams, and shows you where
they go and what to attach to what to.
So I've found this to be a fantastic
tool for learning streams.
There's lots of other great books and
blog posts out there, but
streams are really probably top three most
important concepts to understand in Node.
I'm really just starting to get my head
wrapped around them, honestly, myself.
But definitely, make sure you do
some more reading about streams,
because the future of Node is
definitely very stream based.